.todo.md, before:

## monofs

- [x] Implement tombstone for deletes.

- [ ] Implement merging although it is a bit tricky.

  - [ ] How do we handle "previous" field conflicts?
  - [ ] Handling deletes with tombstones

- [x] Fix file size issue.

  - [x] We should be able to get the file size from a files metadata.
  - [x] This requires making changes to `IpldStore` and `Layout`.
  - [x] `IpldStore::get_cid_size(cid: &Cid) -> Result<u64, Error>`?
  - [x] `Layout::get_cid_size(cid: &Cid) -> Result<u64, Error>`?

## monoutils-store

- [ ] Implement a content-defined chunker that uses Gear Hashing.

  - [ ] FastCDC?
  - [ ] Make it the default chunker for stores.

- [ ] Implement `BalancedDagLayout` and make it the default layout for stores.

- [ ] Expose `IpldStore::gc` and `IpldStore::dereference` and implement for:

  - [ ] `FlatFsStore`
  - [ ] `MemoryStore`
  - [ ] A stored `node` or `bytes` should be deleted when the last reference is dropped.

- [ ] Implement seeking for writes in `IpldStoreSeekable`

  - [ ] Figure out how Chunker and Layout can support seeking writes.
  - [ ] Introduce `put_bytes_seekable`.

- [ ] `FlatFsStore` should support refcounting.

- [ ] `bytes` and `raw_blocks` should support refcounting too.

- [ ] Must be able to break large nodes into smaller ones.

  - [ ] Therefore there is no need to have different max sizes for `bytes` and `node`.

## monocore

- [x] Fix copy and remove permission issues on Linux.

- [ ] Use sqlitedb for maintaining running services state.

- [ ] Treating microvm management like a package manager.

  - [ ] Store service rootfs, state, logs locally in a .mc directory kind of like ./node_modules.
  - [ ] Store reference rootfses (oci & monofs) in home_dir with a special store that links to them from forked rootfses.

- [ ] Support multiple registries.
  - [x] Use `Reference` type for image_ref where it makes sense: https://docs.rs/oci-spec/0.7.1/oci_spec/distribution/struct.Reference.html
  - [ ] Qualify image names fully where needed. <registry>/<repo>:<tag>

Commit message:

feat(store): implement garbage collection for MemoryStore (#125)
- Add reference counting for stored blocks
- Implement garbage_collect method to remove unreferenced blocks
- Add recursive cleanup of dependencies when blocks are removed
- Add comprehensive tests for garbage collection scenarios
- Improve documentation of IpldStore trait methods
- Add Unknown variant to Codec enum

.todo.md, after:

## monofs

- [x] Implement tombstone for deletes.

- [ ] Implement merging although it is a bit tricky.

  - [ ] How do we handle "previous" field conflicts?
  - [ ] Handling deletes with tombstones

- [x] Fix file size issue.

  - [x] We should be able to get the file size from a files metadata.
  - [x] This requires making changes to `IpldStore` and `Layout`.
  - [x] `IpldStore::get_cid_size(cid: &Cid) -> Result<u64, Error>`?
  - [x] `Layout::get_cid_size(cid: &Cid) -> Result<u64, Error>`?

- [ ] `checkpoint` does not have to re-load the entity from the store.

  - [ ] We can take an efficient shortcut by modifying the initial_load_cid in-place during store.
  - [ ] Introduce an internal `store_in_place` method?

## monoutils-store

- [ ] Consider other store implementations optimized for write or read efficiency

  - [ ] `RocksDbStore` - backed by RocksDB.
  - [ ] `PackedFsStore` - writes multiple blocks to a single file.

- [ ] Support compression in `FlatFsStore` for better storage efficiency.

  - [ ] Compression option for block and packed files.
  - [ ] GZIP with flate2-rs.

- [x] Implement a content-defined chunker that uses Gear Hashing.

  - [x] FastCDC
  - [x] GearCDC
  - [x] Make it the default chunker for stores.

- [ ] Implement `BalancedDagLayout` and make it the default layout for stores.

- [ ] Expose `IpldStore::gc` and `IpldStore::dereference` and implement for:

  - [ ] `FlatFsStore`
  - [ ] `MemoryStore`
  - [ ] A stored `node` or `bytes` should be deleted when the last reference is dropped.

- [ ] `FlatFsStore` should support refcounting.

- [ ] `bytes` and `raw_blocks` should support refcounting too.

## monocore

- [x] Fix copy and remove permission issues on Linux.

- [x] Use sqlitedb for maintaining running services state.

- [ ] Treating microvm management like a package manager.

- [ ] Support multiple registries.

  - [ ] Docker
  - [ ] Github
  - [ ] Quay
  - [ ] Sandboxes

- [x] Use `Reference` type for image_ref where it makes sense: https://docs.rs/oci-spec/0.7.1/oci_spec/distribution/struct.Reference.html

- [x] Qualify image names fully where needed. <registry>/<repo>:<tag>
