README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appcypher/monocore/main/assets/a_logo.png" alt="monocore Logo" width="100"></img>
  </a> -->

  <h1 align="center">monocore</h1>

  <p>
    <!-- <a href="https://crates.io/crates/monocore">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/monocore?label=crates" alt="Crate">
    </a> -->
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions?query=">
      <img src="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions/workflows/tests_and_checks.yml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License">
    </a>
    <!-- <a href="https://docs.rs/monocore">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Docs&message=docs.rs&color=blue" alt="Docs">
    </a> -->
  </p>
</div>

**`monocore`** is your gateway to spin up AI-driven sandboxed environments in no time.

Tired of clunky cloud setups? `monocore` is an open-source, self-hostable platform that lets you orchestrate microVMs for your AI agents—right from your local dev machine. With just a single command, you're up and running.

Forget the headaches of replication. `monocore` is distributed by design, so your VMs are seamlessly taken care of, letting you focus on building and experimenting without limits.

Want the power of fly.io but with the freedom of self-hosting? That's where `monocore` comes in. No lock-ins, no unnecessary overhead—just lightweight VMs, ready when you are.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is in early development and is not yet ready for production use.

##

## Outline

- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Development

Follow these steps to set up monocore for development:

### Prerequisites

- [Git][git_home]
- [Rust toolchain (latest stable version)][rustup_home]
- On macOS: [Homebrew][brew_home]

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/appcypher/monocore
   cd monocore
   ```

2. **Build libkrun**

   monocore uses a modified version of [libkrun][libkrun-repo] for its microVMs.

   ```sh
   ./build_libkrun.sh
   ```

   > **Note for macOS users:** Install `krunvm` before building libkrun:
   >
   > ```sh
   > brew tap slp/tap
   > brew install krunvm
   > ```

3. **Build and install monocore**

   ```sh
   cd monocore # Ensure you are in the monocore subdirectory
   make
   sudo make install
   ```

4. **Run examples**

   ```sh
   cd monocore # Ensure you are in the monocore subdirectory
   make example microvm_shell
   ```

## Contributing


1. **Read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) file**

   This file contains information about the coding style, commit message conventions,
   and other guidelines that you should follow when contributing to monocore.

2. **Install pre-commit hooks**

   ```sh
   pre-commit install
   ```

   You will need to have `pre-commit` installed to use these hooks.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](./LICENSE).

[libkrun-repo]: https://github.com/containers/libkrun
[brew_home]: https://brew.sh/
[rustup_home]: https://rustup.rs/
[git_home]: https://git-scm.com/

Commit message:

feat: basic filesystem impl and other deps (#10)
* feat: basic filesystem impl and other deps

- implement content addressable basic fs
- import IPLD store impl
- create other subprojects like raft, ucan, did
- add micro_vm provisioning benchmark
- change paths fron UnixPathBuf to Utf8UnixPathBuf

* fix: replace PathDirs in `find*` fns with a better mut crawling impl

- this should be more efficient than PathDirs
- and it solves the forking issue we had with PathDirs earlier
- now our tests pass
- emphasize the immutability nature of the filesystem

* fix: clippy long doc pragaraph complaint

* feat: implement more apis and fix cidlink `resolve_mut` issue

- preventing stale Cids in `CidLink<T>`s by making refactoring structure and fetching supporting async cid resolution. It means we will be able to store and get the latest cid when something changes.

- implement file input/ouput stream

* feat: implement softlink resolution

- cid based softlink has problems and we may likely move to a path based impl in the future; also to maintain compat wih Unix

- add more unit tests and doc tests

* fix: silent softlink brokenlink error issue

- also fix env_pair and rlimit doc tests

* feat: add readme and make nightly clippy happy

* fix: disable nightly checks cause clippy broken again

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appcypher/monocore/main/assets/a_logo.png" alt="monocore Logo" width="100"></img>
  </a> -->

  <h1 align="center">monocore</h1>

  <p>
    <!-- <a href="https://crates.io/crates/monocore">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/monocore?label=crates" alt="Crate">
    </a> -->
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions?query=">
      <img src="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions/workflows/tests_and_checks.yml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg" alt="License">
    </a>
    <!-- <a href="https://docs.rs/monocore">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Docs&message=docs.rs&color=blue" alt="Docs">
    </a> -->
  </p>
</div>

**`monocore`** is your gateway to spin up AI-driven sandboxed environments in no time.

Tired of clunky cloud setups? `monocore` is an open-source, self-hostable platform that lets you orchestrate microVMs for your AI agents—right from your local dev machine. With just a single command, you're up and running.

Forget the headaches of replication. `monocore` is distributed by design, so your VMs are seamlessly taken care of, letting you focus on building and experimenting without limits.

Want the power of fly.io but with the freedom of self-hosting? That's where `monocore` comes in. No lock-ins, no unnecessary overhead—just lightweight VMs, ready when you are.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is in early development and is not yet ready for production use.

##

## Outline

- [Development](#development)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Development

Follow these steps to set up monocore for development:

### Prerequisites

- [Git][git_home]
- [Rust toolchain][rustup_home] (latest stable version)
- On macOS: [Homebrew][brew_home]

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/appcypher/monocore
   cd monocore
   ```

2. **Build libkrun**

   monocore uses a modified version of [libkrun][libkrun-repo] for its microVMs.

   ```sh
   ./build_libkrun.sh
   ```

   > **Note for macOS users:** Install `krunvm` before building libkrun:
   >
   > ```sh
   > brew tap slp/tap
   > brew install krunvm
   > ```

3. **Build and install monocore**

   ```sh
   cd monocore # Ensure you are in the monocore subdirectory
   make
   sudo make install
   ```

4. **Run examples**

   ```sh
   cd monocore # Ensure you are in the monocore subdirectory
   make example microvm_shell
   ```

5. **Run benchmarks**

   ```sh
   cd monocore # Ensure you are in the monocore subdirectory
   make bench microvm_provision
   ```

## Contributing

1. **Read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) file**

   This file contains information about the coding style, commit message conventions,
   and other guidelines that you should follow when contributing to monocore.

2. **Install pre-commit hooks**

   ```sh
   pre-commit install
   ```

   You will need to have `pre-commit` installed to use these hooks.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](./LICENSE).

[libkrun-repo]: https://github.com/containers/libkrun
[brew_home]: https://brew.sh/
[rustup_home]: https://rustup.rs/
[git_home]: https://git-scm.com/
