monofs/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1 align="center">monofs</h1>

  <p>
    <a href="https://discord.gg/T95Y3XnEAK">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Discord&message=join%20us!&color=mediumslateblue&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions?query=">
      <img src="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions/workflows/tests_and_checks.yml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <a href="https://crates.io/crates/monofs">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/monofs?label=crates&logo=rust" alt="Monofs Crate">
    </a>
    <a href="https://docs.rs/monofs">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Docs&message=docs.rs&color=blue&logo=docs.rs" alt="Monofs Docs">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?logo=apache&logoColor=white" alt="License">
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

**`monofs`** is a content-addressed filesystem designed for distributed applications. It is based largely on the [WNFS](https://github.com/wnfs-wg/rs-wnfs) public filesystem.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is in early development and is not yet ready for production use.

##

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 **Automatic Deduplication**: Save storage space by storing identical content only once, even across different files and directories
- 🔒 **Immutable & Versioned**: Every change creates a new version, making it impossible to accidentally lose data
- 🌐 **Built for Distribution**: Perfect for peer-to-peer and decentralized applications with content-addressed storage
- ⚡ **Efficient Syncing**: Only transfer what's changed between versions, saving bandwidth and time
- 🔗 **Smart Linking**: Create symbolic links that work reliably across different machines and network locations
- 🚀 **Async by Design**: Built for high performance with asynchronous I/O operations
- 📦 **Copy-on-Write**: Make changes without affecting other users or versions of the same data
- 🛡️ **Data Integrity**: Content addressing ensures data hasn't been tampered with or corrupted

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Quick Start

TODO: Demo of running multiple servers on different paths syncing up with each other.

### API

#### Working with Files

```rust
use monofs::filesystem::{File, FileInputStream, FileOutputStream};
use monoutils_store::{MemoryStore, Storable};
use tokio::io::{AsyncReadExt, AsyncWriteExt};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let store = MemoryStore::default();

    // Create a new file
    let mut file = File::new(store.clone());

    // Write content to the file
    let mut output_stream = FileOutputStream::new(&mut file);
    output_stream.write_all(b"Hello, monofs!").await?;
    output_stream.shutdown().await?;

    // Read content from the file
    let mut input_stream = FileInputStream::new(&file).await?;
    let mut buffer = Vec::new();
    input_stream.read_to_end(&mut buffer).await?;

    println!("File content: {}", String::from_utf8_lossy(&buffer));

    // Store the file
    let file_cid = file.store().await?;
    println!("Stored file with CID: {}", file_cid);

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Working with Directories

```rust
use monofs::filesystem::{Dir, FsResult};
use monoutils_store::{MemoryStore, Storable};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> FsResult<()> {
    let store = MemoryStore::default();

    // Create a new root directory
    let mut root = Dir::new(store.clone());

    // Create a file in the directory
    root.create_file("example.txt").await?;

    // Create a subdirectory
    root.create_dir("subdir").await?;

    // List directory contents
    for (name, entity) in root.get_entries() {
        println!("- {}: {:?}", name, entity);
    }

    // Store the directory
    let root_cid = root.store().await?;
    println!("Stored root directory with CID: {}", root_cid);

    Ok(())
}
```

#### API Overview

- `File`: Represents a file in the filesystem
- `Dir`: Represents a directory in the filesystem
- `FileInputStream`: Provides read access to file contents
- `FileOutputStream`: Provides write access to file contents
- `Metadata`: Stores metadata for files and directories
- `Storable`: Trait for storing and loading entities from the content-addressed store

For more detailed examples and API usage, check out the `examples` directory and the API documentation.

## 💻 Development

To set up `monofs` for development:

1. Ensure you have Rust installed (latest stable version)
2. Clone the monocore repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/appcypher/monocore
   cd monocore/monofs
   ```
3. Build the project:
   ```sh
   cargo build
   ```
4. Run tests:
   ```sh
   cargo test
   ```

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](../LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat(monofs): implement main NFS server adapter (#107)
* feat(monofs): [ongoing] implement NFS server adapter

Adds NFS server functionality to monofs, allowing it to be mounted as a network filesystem. Key changes include:

- Implement NFSFileSystem trait for MonofsServer
- Add support for basic NFS operations (create, mkdir, symlink, etc.)
- Add path-to-fileid mapping system using SymbolTable for efficient lookups
- Add comprehensive test suite for NFS operations
- Update documentation with examples and diagrams

* feat(monofs): implement read, write, remove, rename and readdir operations

- Add read/write support with offset and count
- Add file/directory removal with deletion tracking
- Add rename/move operations between directories
- Add directory listing with pagination
- Add extensive test coverage for new operations

* feat(cryptdag): add new package for cryptographic DAG key generation

- Add new monoutils-cryptdag package for secure key generation in tree/DAG structures
- Add initial package structure with Cargo.toml and README
- Document key concepts like temporal/snapshot keys and use cases
- Update workspace Cargo.toml to include new package
- Remove unused 'auto' CLI subcommand
- Improve documentation in monofs server module
- Uncomment test cases in monofs server tests
- Update IpldStore trait documentation

* refactor(monofs): improve write operations and handle content size properly

- Improve write operations with proper versioning
- Update file operations to handle content size properly
- Replace libipld with ipld-core for core IPLD functionality
- Add multihash and multihash-codetable for hash operations
- Add thread-safe extended attributes handling
- Remove sparse file support
- Update store implementations for better type safety
- Add test-log dependency for better test output

The change improves code organization, type safety and removes unnecessary dependencies while maintaining core functionality.

monofs/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1 align="center">monofs</h1>

  <p>
    <a href="https://discord.gg/T95Y3XnEAK">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Discord&message=join%20us!&color=mediumslateblue&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions?query=">
      <img src="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/actions/workflows/tests_and_checks.yml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status">
    </a>
    <a href="https://crates.io/crates/monofs">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/monofs?label=crates&logo=rust" alt="Monofs Crate">
    </a>
    <a href="https://docs.rs/monofs">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Docs&message=docs.rs&color=blue&logo=docs.rs" alt="Monofs Docs">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/appcypher/monocore/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?logo=apache&logoColor=white" alt="License">
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

**`monofs`** is a content-addressed filesystem designed for distributed applications. It is based largely on the [WNFS](https://github.com/wnfs-wg/rs-wnfs) public filesystem.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is in early development and is not yet ready for production use.

##

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 **Automatic Deduplication**: <sub>Save storage space by storing identical content only once, even across different files and directories</sub>
- 🔒 **Versioned**: <sub>Every change creates a new version, making it impossible to accidentally lose data</sub>
- 🌐 **Built for Distribution**: <sub>Perfect for peer-to-peer and decentralized applications with content-addressed storage</sub>
- ⚡ **Efficient Syncing**: <sub>Only transfer what's changed between versions, saving bandwidth and time</sub>
- 🛡️ **Data Integrity**: <sub>Content addressing ensures data hasn't been tampered with or corrupted</sub>

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Installation

```sh
curl -sSfL https://install.monofs.dev | sh
```

### Quick Start

TODO: Demo of running multiple servers on different paths syncing up with each other and use with monocore.

### API

#### Working with Files

```rust
use monofs::filesystem::{File, FileInputStream, FileOutputStream};
use monoutils_store::{MemoryStore, Storable};
use tokio::io::{AsyncReadExt, AsyncWriteExt};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let store = MemoryStore::default();

    // Create a new file
    let mut file = File::new(store.clone());

    // Write content to the file
    let mut output_stream = FileOutputStream::new(&mut file);
    output_stream.write_all(b"Hello, monofs!").await?;
    output_stream.shutdown().await?;

    // Read content from the file
    let mut input_stream = FileInputStream::new(&file).await?;
    let mut buffer = Vec::new();
    input_stream.read_to_end(&mut buffer).await?;

    println!("File content: {}", String::from_utf8_lossy(&buffer));

    // Store the file
    let file_cid = file.store().await?;
    println!("Stored file with CID: {}", file_cid);

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Working with Directories

```rust
use monofs::filesystem::{Dir, FsResult};
use monoutils_store::{MemoryStore, Storable};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> FsResult<()> {
    let store = MemoryStore::default();

    // Create a new root directory
    let mut root = Dir::new(store.clone());

    // Create a file in the directory
    root.create_file("example.txt").await?;

    // Create a subdirectory
    root.create_dir("subdir").await?;

    // List directory contents
    for (name, entity) in root.get_entries() {
        println!("- {}: {:?}", name, entity);
    }

    // Store the directory
    let root_cid = root.store().await?;
    println!("Stored root directory with CID: {}", root_cid);

    Ok(())
}
```

#### API Overview

- `File`: Represents a file in the filesystem
- `Dir`: Represents a directory in the filesystem
- `FileInputStream`: Provides read access to file contents
- `FileOutputStream`: Provides write access to file contents
- `Metadata`: Stores metadata for files and directories
- `Storable`: Trait for storing and loading entities from the content-addressed store

For more detailed examples and API usage, check out the `examples` directory and the API documentation.

## 💻 Development

To set up `monofs` for development:

1. Ensure you have Rust installed (latest stable version)
2. Clone the monocore repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/appcypher/monocore
   cd monocore/monofs
   ```
3. Build the project:
   ```sh
   cargo build
   ```
4. Run tests:
   ```sh
   cargo test
   ```

## ⚖️ License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](../LICENSE).
